Thank you very much everyone. Again, good afternoon. Welcome everyone. Welcome. Thank you.
Again, we will do some, again, some teachings and touch best on this teaching.
We will be going on by Chabjie, the new Rinpoche, and so then we go over this.
In order to begin that, again, we are not going to forget about the best, our home best,
and which is the motivation, and that is beautiful motivation.
We have to activate our beautiful motivation of the dual and the appreciation, bodhijata,
and then Vadiyana, purity, or the three-vadial state, those kind of understanding, or the
realization,
kind of truly activated, sizzling status. Then we begin to reflect on the teachings.
And what we are going to be doing is what the traditional teacher, Buddha, is teaching,
always mentioned, studying and contemplating and practicing, meditating.
We are doing that all these three things, three are targeted in these two and a half hours
or two hour sessions. What are we doing? So really, we are doing beautiful, according to Buddhism.
It is wonderful. During that time, we are cultivating our beautiful motivation.
This is known as power of the mind. We are activating that. So therefore, it is so beautiful.
And again, with that, then we go to this teaching.
Now, on the teaching, we are talking about the three jewels.
Three jewels is the foundation and focal point of the Buddhism.
It doesn't matter which schools you came. Buddhism has many different schools,
Theravadas, Sutra Mahayanas, Vedayana schools, so forth, but three jewels, it has no difference.
Everyone follow with three jewels. This is number one.
Same time, it is the center of columns. Not just number one, and then kind of forget that,
it is continually carrying or during all our practices.
And being a Buddhism, the goal is to achieve or to discover the three jewels.
Buddha Dharmasaka. This time, of course, is our destination goal.
At the same time, it is our focal point, our foundations.
So now, we are talking about the three jewels.
Among the three jewels, the Buddha Dharmasaka.
And among the three jewels, I am talking about, as we all know, Buddha Buddha.
Buddha means totally enlightenment. That means that the final goal of the practices
is preferred when you become the Buddha.
That is the final goal. There is nothing higher for the goal.
You achieve full, big of realization. So that is known as Buddha.
When you become the Buddha, it is not just one individual,
it now becomes something of a kind of higher status.
This is what in Buddhism is called, again, continuing beginning
to benefit for all living beings.
This is really truly beginning to benefit for all living beings.
So how Buddha is going to help?
Benefit for beings through different emanations.
The Buddha is going to benefit for all beings.
First, Buddha achieved when you reach enlightenment.
What that is known as? Reaching enlightenment as a Dharmakaya status.
That is the ultimate goal. The Buddha himself, him or herself,
now reaches Dharmakaya status.
Once you achieve Dharmakaya status, now, as I said,
you begin to benefit and helping for all living beings
without any discrimination until everyone works out
each and every one's potential for their innate nature.
They are going to work, benefit. That is known as emanations.
In the terminology in the teaching, it is the emanations named kayas.
So I am talking of the kayas yesterday.
First kaya is Buddha reaching enlightenment.
Then the rest, all those other kayas, such as sambhokaya, Dharmakaya,
all those are different emanations, different disciplines.
And what is the example of that emanation in the teaching of Krenmaikhand?
For example, when a brilliant sun shines in the sky,
pretty from clothes, mists, anything, those kind of turbulence, clothing, anything,
when it shines, it will reflect that sunshine
wherever there is any kind of circumstances and conditions,
such as all the bones, all the legs on the earth,
all the bones of the earth, all the mirrors,
wherever there is no need to be shortage of the emanations.
It will reflect everywhere as the circumstances, conditions are occurred or are there.
That display of the reflections of all that is known as kayas emanations.
Dharmakaya is like sunlight, sunshine, from that emanating everywhere.
So then we are talking about, that's what we are talking about kaya, to benefit.
What these kayas now have, those emanations have,
they have then five wisdom.
Through the five wisdom, they are going to benefit for all the living beings.
When the five wisdom, when we are talking about the five wisdom,
that means they are ultimate state of loving kindness, compassion,
kindness, concern, caring, common sense,
and practical, and openness,
respect and appreciation to every living beings.
When Buddha help, all those emanations began helping to all the beings.
They help according what the suits with individuals,
not pulsing, not imposing.
Something that they can adjust and adapt so it will aspire
and ignite their own inner glories.
The final goal, the goal of the Buddhism or the Buddhas
to help to the other beings as I said,
to ignite their inner glories, inner light.
Because this inner light or this Buddha nature is equal to every living beings.
This is what we have to light up, lighten up.
So these old emanations, the kayas are beginning to help with
really perfect knowledge, perfect kindness and perfect wisdom.
Those are known as five wisdom that we all know, we heard that name.
And now the fourth wisdom, the fundraising wisdom is known as Dharmadhatu wisdom.
Dharmadhatu wisdom is the ultimate wisdom of the true nature
of the great emptiness, openness.
That is the original wisdom.
From that Dharmadhatu wisdom, or Dharmadhatu maybe I can say as like
great emptiness intelligence, great emptiness wisdom.
When a great emptiness, that openness wisdom,
then it has all those other poles, it is right there.
All other poles such as Maryland wisdom,
equanimity wisdom, and discrimination awareness wisdom,
distinctly understanding knowledge of wisdom.
And all accomplished wisdom right within this Dharmadhatu wisdom
or Maryland wisdom.
It has all that.
Why there is five or four of these accounts is aspect,
different aspect of this wisdom, aspect.
And all that is, that again our talk.
As you can tell, you can say this Maryland wisdom.
When it's Maryland wisdom, what that means is a metaphor,
Maryland is a metaphor.
Wisdom that likes Maryland.
So that means within this Dharmadhatu wisdom,
within this Dharmadhatu wisdom,
that everything is reflecting, reflecting.
True like in this Maryland,
surface of the Dharmadhatu wisdom has Maryland images.
And how? The everything.
That means everything whatever is existing or occurring,
occurring, all is reflected.
But that means whether the wisdom has no blockage
of the past, present, and future,
or maybe particularly past and future.
All that is reflecting into this Maryland wisdom
is like a giant, like telescopic telescope,
that captures the everything, everything.
Well that means according to Buddhism, samsara, nirvana,
everything is, it reflects within them.
It's like giant, narrow.
So because of that knowledge, where it is reflecting,
where it is shining, that, for that reason,
is known as the Maryland wisdom.
Maryland wisdom.
This is again, when it is reflected,
then second one or third one,
Muslim, is an equanimity wisdom.
Even though it is reflecting all the everything,
as both samsara and nirvana, variety of the displays,
the situational circumstances, all come.
But when it comes to the Maryland,
Maryland, there is nothing is different at all.
It's within that marrow.
Within that marrow, what marrow will have wisdom.
And also, it's just blended in everything.
There is no different compartment.
Oh, this is samsara aspect of Maryland.
What's the, this is nirvana aspect of Maryland.
What this is, ups and downs, situational circumstances,
knowledge, what's the, this is not all blended in.
Completely within that, there is even no different trace
or the marks of the different those aspects.
It's completely equalized and balanced,
blended in whatever terminology we use.
That aspect of knowledge, wisdom, is known as equanimity,
wisdom.
Even the next one, third one,
is discrimination, awareness, wisdom.
That's why I'm also translating.
Distinctly, understanding clearly the knowledge
or wisdom, that knowledge.
And that means, even though it's blended in,
every day is complete, there is no different compartment.
Compartment, all in the marrow,
the wisdom or the dharmada, the wisdom, there is nothing.
But yet, everything is clearly understanding everything.
So thoroughly, so precise, so subtle, so final.
Everything understands.
There was nothing that captures everything.
Of the past, future, detail, everything.
So clearly, distantly, the teachings say that,
that put me, I say like maybe I use the example of the marble,
the crystal marble.
If you put on your own palm,
you can see clearly, thoroughly, everything.
Like that, every knowledge of the objects,
both samsara and nirvana,
are so precisely, so clearly,
so subtle, so detailed, so final.
And that's what's really known as
the distinctively, clearly, understanding the wisdom.
Everything, so detailed, so thought.
Not kind of overcast it,
or kind of like overlap each other.
Everything details of that.
That is known as the discrimination,
awareness, wisdom.
Or distinctively, distinctly, understanding wisdom.
Or clearly, knowing wisdom.
And the next one, or the fourth or fifth one,
is all accomplishing wisdom.
Because of that knowledge,
because of that wisdom,
then everything is perfectly accomplishing
a coldness situation,
circumstances, and everything completely,
fulfilling everything.
There is no need forcing, no need to push,
a right way to completion
and fulfilling all the activities.
According to their situations,
circumstances, capabilities, or readiness,
exactly where that exactly needs to be,
fulfilling.
And that aspect of knowledge,
when that fulfills, which is fulfilling,
what is the fundamental cause to fulfilling that,
is intelligence or the wisdom.
And that aspect is known as
the all-accomplishing wisdom.
So that is what this, all the Buddhas,
above the Muslims.
And as I said yesterday, when we talk about wisdom,
maybe many, many times we think,
"Oh, this is just a wisdom, a wisdom."
But this wisdom is completely blended up in,
or triggered with loving kindness, compassion.
Compassion is completely that,
saturated or targeted.
And that is the wisdom.
This is the wisdom.
This wisdom can be summarized into two systems.
And also known as wisdom,
that understanding all the absolute truth,
exactly as it is,
wisdom and understanding,
relative truth, exactly as it is.
And again,
wisdom and understanding,
exactly the absolute truth as it is,
and wisdom and understanding,
exactly relative truth as it is.
So this is known as true wisdom.
And so that means this five wisdom
can be summarized into two systems.
That is, again,
there is a different account of
the great masters' interpretation,
but in a simple way to tell,
"Dhamma Dhatu" wisdom is a wisdom
that understands the absolute truth,
the absolute truth, exactly as it is.
That is,
the wisdom that understanding,
absolute truth as it is.
And then as the four wisdoms,
such as marital and wisdom,
economic and wisdoms,
all, and not all,
and all accomplishing wisdoms,
and wisdoms that understand distinctly,
clearly as it is,
that four wisdoms are,
can be summarized within the wisdom
that understanding, relative truth,
exactly as it is.
So that is two wisdoms.
Simple to tell, again,
the wisdom of the absolute truth,
wisdom of relative truth,
two wisdoms.
One is, two wisdoms can be summarized
in one wisdoms.
That is, as I said,
he is studying, two.
Two, then,
the great wisdom of the omniscient,
great wisdom of the omniscient,
of the enlightenment.
That is, then,
all summarized,
or that is the wisdom.
So that is really about the wisdoms.
Again, as we spoke,
all the day, how we say,
when we explain about the Buddha,
the Gaias,
and the wisdoms,
and the beneficial activities of the Buddha.
Those are three women,
or I meant carnival divisions.
And Gaias, or the emanations of Gaias,
are the best of the wisdoms
and the beneficial activities.
In other words,
the beneficial activities and wisdoms
are came because the Buddha reached
the Dharma-Kaya status,
or achieved Buddhahood.
Then, wisdoms and beneficial activities
come spontaneously,
because that's why we spoke about the Gaias.
And the Gaias are,
I'm translating today also, emanations.
We spoke about emanations.
Then we spoke just an hour about wisdoms.
Now I talk really about beneficial activities.
Benefit. So when you reach enlightenment
and become the Buddha,
as I said,
you begin now to benefit
and help all the living beings
to ignite their inner wisdoms
or inner potentials.
That is really the purpose of it.
And when you reach that,
you discover each of everyone's
their own potentials.
That is what is known.
Then everyone becomes the Buddha.
And if we didn't really discover
our potential or our Buddha nature,
then we're still struggling in samsara
and all the different challenges and difficulties.
So to reflect clearly the suffering difficulty
is to work out our own inner nature still
and discover our own inner qualities,
our own inner richness.
That's what is related,
known as the teachings of the Buddhists.
So for that reason,
now sense that beings are number,
certain beings,
there are no numbers according Buddhism.
There are so many beings.
So therefore, we need always help
to all the sense beings.
That's why for the level of the body of the Buddha,
and that's why Buddha carried that body of the Buddha
and activated that with the body of the activities
and then become the Buddha Buddha,
now the poor Buddha is going to benefit,
help to all the sense beings.
So the other benefit of the sense beings, how?
Those are in the teachings said three ways,
and continuation, pervasive, and spontaneously.
Those are the three qualities of the way
benefitting for all the living beings.
Again, both is continuation.
Second is, pervasive.
Third is, spontaneously.
So those three ways Buddha is going to help to all the living beings.
How?
What is behind is, again if I summarize,
Buddha is going to benefit all those beings with loving kindness,
with compassion, loving kindness and compassion.
and wisdom and abilities, strength and power.
These three are the power behind
to benefit to all the beings
with continuation, pervasive, and spontaneously.
And now, loving kindness and compassion of the Buddha
is open in the Buddha's teaching.
Mention is true.
Buddha loves all living beings as Mother's only child.
Not all the living beings without any discrimination.
Every living Buddha loves every living being as,
for example, Mother's only child.
Buddha loves.
Thank you.
How long?
Buddha loves.
Until everyone becomes the Buddha's Lord.
Again, another order I can use,
until they discover their own true nature,
Buddha loves.
So that is love.
The loving kindness and compassion is.
Then also, how are the Buddha going to help?
Going to help with wisdom.
And that five wisdom is making it, particularly those four wisdom,
exactly going to help those beings as they need it.
As I said already, not pulsing, not pushing, not imposing,
not convoluted, bossy, with respect, appreciation, calm, politeness.
According to their readiness, Buddha helps.
How that in the teaching said,
Buddha will usher those beings on the lower ranks, three lower ranks.
Buddha will usher them to the higher ranks, such as human ranks.
And when they go in the human realm,
Buddha will usher them to the part, according to their readiness.
What that means? Part.
According to Buddhism, there are three parts.
Part of the sharvaka, part of the particular Buddha,
and part of the bodhisattvas.
So according to their readiness,
Buddha will usher them to those parts.
And what does that really mean?
Again, there's nothing strange that Buddha is going to lead in different directions.
It's just that Buddha is going to have to touch their inner best,
love and compassion according to their readiness, according to their situations.
So those who are like a sharvaka, they are not going to think too much of other things.
According to their teaching, they're going to be thinking,
"How are you going to come out of samsara?"
So Buddha will help them to come out of samsara.
Those like sharvaka and both.
And the part of the bodhis, or the solitude of the bodhis.
And then in the aha-pass, so Buddha will help them to treat their desire, their interest.
Those individuals who like to benefit, not just only I like to come out of samsara,
but I like to help all the sentient beings to come out of samsara.
So then those are known as bodhis-samsara.
So Buddha will help to aspire according to their desire,
to really reach themselves in enlightenment,
and also to help and to aspire to benefit for all the fittings.
So when they reach to that state,
how the Buddha will help according to his teaching.
When they reach to the sharvaka state, all the part of the Buddha state, bodhis-sato state,
finally, whatever they will help to aspire,
they become totally enlightened state, Buddha group.
So that means, from the three law realms, Buddha will aspire to the higher realms.
From higher realms, Buddha will aspire to the path of the sharvaka,
party Buddha, and bodhis-sato, from there, Buddha will aspire to the final destination
or fulfillment of the Buddha world states.
Those are in a teaching mission, how their Buddha will help.
And when Buddha help, also, on Buddha's time,
the practitioners or the sentient beings are ready to need to help those beings.
They are ready, they are waiting for to really wake up to themselves,
to the origin state, or whatever state they like.
They are ready to that.
Buddha will be, timing will be so perfect.
Buddha's timing will be never going to delay.
In the teaching state, the tide of ocean can mix up, something.
But Buddha's time, never going to mix up.
Timing or to benefit for all the sentient beings.
And Buddha's throwing loving kind and compassion with them, Buddha always,
every living beings who need help, who need support.
Therefore, always in the teaching state, when you have the ring of devotion,
ring, like round ring, the hook of the compassion of the Buddha
or the blessing of the Buddha will come so easily.
So the devotion ring, or when you open up the devotion window,
the sunlight of the window, that light will come inside.
So easily, beautiful, there is no delay of this.
That's what really teaching say.
So that is how Buddha is continually helping.
And so it's called, that is what is, how long that Buddha going to help?
It's for until everyone reaches enlightenment.
Enlightenment. So it is continuation.
It's not just once in a year, twice a year, or the one century, two centuries, all that.
But it's continuing until everyone reaches enlightenment.
That is known as continuation, beneficial activities.
Then is a, sorry, then is a pervasive.
Buddha's activity is pervasive.
It's not something that Buddha's activity is now happening in the southern direction,
or is not going to happen in the west or the north.
No, it's pervasive.
It's pervasive of the time, pervasive of the places.
There is no distance, divisions of the time and space.
Everywhere according to teaching, it's pervasive.
All that.
And then third one is when Buddha help.
How that help is kind of Buddha himself.
Them or her, or whether them start pushing, coming back in so much effort and all that things.
No, it's spontaneously.
It's spontaneously. We don't need any effort.
It's easy going. Easy moving.
Flowing continually.
Naturally, smoothly, beautifully.
Shining smoothly and blended in as it needed.
So it is spontaneously moving.
Those are known as principal, benefit, activities of the Buddha.
So this is what we need the Buddhas now.
By that, I've explained briefly about among the three dual, the Buddha, we went.
Again, as I said, it's not something that I'm talking new things you did not hear.
And we all heard these teachings, things.
So I'm replying my memory and your memories.
And maybe I'm sometimes making a mistake.
You can correct me too.
It says we are replying our memories so you can correct.
We all follow the teaching of the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni and lineage masters. So therefore, again, as I said, we are reminded to each
other
and we in a way can correct each other too.
And that is my brief talk this afternoon.
And thank you very much everyone again for participating and coming.
Thank you again. Thank you.
Now we do short meditation as we begin.
Thank you.